review the 'data file' section (#56)
openalea/openalea.rtfd.io: doc/development/guidelines.md

[project.entry-points."wralea"]
"my_pkg" = "openalea.my_pkg_wralea"
```
## Package Resources / Data files

> You might want to include resources/data files (i.e. any files that is not a *.py file) in your package for a number of reasons, that will determine your packaging strategy:

Reviewer: Separate resources (icons, config files) from data. This will be clearer.

Reviewer: And in the text, there are different scenarios that are completly different:

- small data sets
- large data sets
- Notebooks /tutorials
- shared libraries (dll) which is another topic for me

Reviewer: for tutorials, we have to think how they can move or reused in a share *openalea.gallery* package

Reviewer 2: indeed it would be good that they can be accessed using the same path. However not directly linked to the data management

- the resource is only used in tests (and is relatively small in size) => add a test/data dir and access it with relative path (see 'Direct access using relative paths' bellow)
- the resource is only used in notebooks (and is relatively small in size) => add a doc/examples/data dir and access it with relative path (see 'Direct access using relative paths' bellow)
- the resource is accessed by test and notebooks (and is relatively small in size) => include it as a package resource (see 'Distributing as a package resource' below)
- the resource is accessed by test, notebooks, and/or is usefull for other packages (eg database), and/or is composed of large file (e.g. phenotyping images) => refer it as an external resource in the code (see 'Distributing as an external resource' below)

### Direct access using relative paths

This method is recommended only if you are sure that the data files will be accessed by cloning the git repository (e.g. clone/run tests locally or on CI runners, clone/build doc locally or by ReadTheDoc runner).

> It can also work for data located in source dir (e.g src/openalea/pkg_name/data), but it is not recommended, as some build tools will zip the src dir and defeat the method. In the later case prefer 'Distributing as a package resource' below)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can also work for data located in source dir (e.g `src/openalea/pkg_name/data`), but it is not recommended, as some build tools will zip the src dir and defeat the method. In the later case prefer [Distributing as a package resource](#distributing-as-a-package-resource).
```

This method is pretty straightforward, as you just have to add a data dir, e.g. for test:

```bash
pkg_name
├── ...
├── test
│   ├── test_A.py                        
│   ├── data
│       ├── data_file_A.csv
```

and in test_A.py, access the data file with:

```python
from pathlib import Path
this_dir = Path(__file__).parent if '__file__' in globals() else Path(".").resolve()
data_dir = this_dir.parent / "data" 

> data_A_path = data_dir / "data_file_A.csv"

Reviewer: What is the strategy for several data files?
A specific function that return the file with doc or an automatic strategy that list all the files and produce the python module data.py?

|            └──data_fileC.csv      ┘
```

In pyproject.toml you will use the package-data section to specify which files are to be included. It could be as simple and generic as :

```toml
# pyproject.toml
[tool.setuptools.package-data]
"openalea.pkg_name" = ["data/**/*"]
```

> This method is fully compatible with the recommended 'include-package-data = false' directive, that only force explicit data declaration. 

Reviewer: Nice
